.\"-
.\"  Copyright (c) 2010 Gordon Tetlow
.\"  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"  are met:
.\"  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\"  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\"  ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\"  IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"  ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\"  FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\"  OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\"  HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\"  LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\"  OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\"  SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd March 6, 2022
.Dt MANPATH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm manpath
.Nd display search path for manual pages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Ldq
.Op Fl -debug
.Op Fl -help|-?
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl -
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility determines the user's manual search path from
the user's
.Ev PATH ,
and local configuration files.
This result is echoed to the standard output.
.Ss OPTIONS
.Op Fl d
Print extra debugging information.
.Pp
.Op Fl L
Output manual locales list instead of the manual path.
.Pp
.Op Fl q
Suppresses warning messages.
.Pp
.Op Fl -debug
Enable debug mode
.Pp
.Op Fl -help|-?
Print usage and this help message and exit
.Pp
.Op Fl -version
Print version and exit
.Pp
.Op Fl -
Options processing terminator
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
The
.Nm
utility constructs the manual path from three sources:
.Bl -enum -compact
.It
From each component of the user's
.Ev PATH
for the first of:
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
.Pa pathname/man
.It
.Pa pathname/MAN
.It
If pathname ends with /bin:
.Pa pathname/../share/man
and
.Pa pathname/../man
.El
.It
From default manpath entries:
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
.Pa /usr/share/man
.It
.Pa /usr/share/openssl/man
.It
.Pa /usr/local/share/man
.It
.Pa /usr/local/man
.El
.It
The configuration files listed in the
.Sx FILES
section for
.Va MANPATH
entries.
.El
The information from these locations is then concatenated together.
.Pp
If the
.Fl L
flag is set, the
.Nm
utility will search the configuration files listed in the
.Sx FILES
section for
.Va MANLOCALE
entries.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev MANLOCALES"
.It Ev MANLOCALES
If set with the
.Fl L
flag, causes the utility to display a warning and the value, overriding any
other configuration found on the system.
.It Ev MANPATH
If set, causes the utility to display a warning and the value, overriding
any other configuration found on the system.
.It Ev PATH
Influences the manual path as described in the
.Sx IMPLEMENTATION NOTES .
.El
.Pp
The
.Ev MANPATH_DEBUG
environment variable can also be set to any value to enable debug mode.
.Pp
The
.Ev FLAVOUR
or
.Ev MANPATH_FLAVOUR
environment variables can be set to one of the following values, to implement only the corresponding options and behaviours:
.Bl -bullet
.It
bsd | bsd:freebsd : FreeBSD
.Xr manpath 1
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Pa /etc/man.conf
System configuration file.
.It Pa /usr/local/etc/man.d/*.conf
Local configuration files.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr apropos 1 ,
.Xr man 1 ,
.Xr whatis 1 ,
.Xr man.conf 5 ,
.Xr manpath 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is a standard UNIX command, though not a POSIX one.
.Pp
This re-implementation tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sh PORTABILITY
To be tested under Windows.
.Sh HISTORY
This re-implementation was made for the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU PNU project
.Sh LICENSE
It is available under the 3-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Hubert Tournier
.Pp
The manpath(1) manual page is mainly based on the one written for FreeBSD by
.An Gordon Tetlow .
.Sh BUGS
This re-implementation corrects 3 (minor) bugs or the original command:
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
No warning was displayed when MANPATH was set
.It
Default manpath entries were supplied when PATH was not set, before "Adding default manpath entries"
.It
A "Skipping duplicate manpath entry" message was incorrectly displayed with MANPATH directives with empty content in config files
.El
