.Dd March 6, 2022
.Dt MANPATH 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm manpath
.Nd return the search path for manual pages
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Em import manpath
.Pp
.Ft String
.Fo manpath.get_manpath
.Fa "Integer debug_level = 0"
.Fa "Boolean quiet_mode = False"
.Fc
.Ft String
.Fo manpath.get_locales
.Fa "Integer debug_level = 0"
.Fa "Boolean quiet_mode = False"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn get_manpath
function returns a string of colon separated directories containing manual pages.
.Pp
The
.Fn get_locales
function returns a string of colon separated locales for which there are localized manual pages.
.Pp
For each of the two functions, if the optional
.Fa debug_level
is set to 1, 2 or 3 it will also print increasingly verbose debugging messages to the console.
.Pp
And if the optional
.Fa quiet_mode
argument is set to True it will discard warning messages printed to the console.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the execution of
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev MANLOCALES"
.It Ev MANLOCALES
If set, causes the utility to override any other configuration found on the system.
.It Ev MANPATH
If set, causes the utility to override any other configuration found on the system.
.It Ev PATH
Influences the manual path as described in the
.Sx IMPLEMENTATION NOTES .
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr manpath 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Lb manpath
tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sh HISTORY
This library was made for the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU [PNU project]
.Sh LICENSE
It is available under the 3-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Hubert Tournier
